Let's dive into our project again we have next in it for example and I mention that this is executed
on the server.
If we load the page for the first time now since it runs on the server why don't we just put our code
to access a database in here just as we do it in a node express app for example.
Well because next kind of runs in its own shell you could say Now that being said you can't execute
service code in certain limitations here and you can actually integrate next into node express or other
frameworks app.
And I have a whole module later in the course but you can treat the next server init method as well
as the async data method and the fetch method as special methods where you don't reach out to database.
Why.
Because you can't rely on them running on the server.
They might run on the client right.
You'd learn that they run on the client if you click around.
They just run the server for the initial load.
So instead what we want to do here is we want to put our code to your debt should get us the data.
Now we can still check if we are on the server by checking if process client.
If that is not true the method executes on the server.
This is a special environment variable that is provided automatically.
So if this is not true then we know we're running on the server.
So here we could safely run code that reaches out to some database and gets us data from there.
Still this is not really how it would work.
We shouldn't put server side code in next to it or async data.
We will receive something special here though the context here holds the actual request that reaches
this service code.
Let me simply console log context request here.
We should see two things that this only gets executed once if we reload the page and not if we click
around and that we get some data in there.
So let's go back to the application and reload page any page.
Doesn't matter which one it is.
When we do this we can increase the size of the terminal and we get a huge object here.
This actually is a default request object as we would have it in Express.
Yes apps because next your behind the scenes uses the same middleware.
So to say here we can do whatever we can do with normal request.
For example we could access the session if we managed sessions here does something I will dive into
later in a separate module where I assume that we have not just integrated into our main express node
server but maybe we have a separate backend because maybe we just want to create our next app as a single
page app or because we simply have a micro services approach where we have different backgrounds for
different kind of data.
Maybe we even have different clients.
A mobile app and our next app.
So we need a separate server a separate backend and I want to focus on this approach first before a
later in that module.
I already mentioned dive into how you can integrate an X into a node express more closely.
So this is what we'll have a look at in this Monch to will see how we can actually reach out to some
Aberg back and some over restful API from within our next app.